{"Title": "A counter-embedding IPVO based reversible data hiding technique", "Num_Citations": 0, "URL": "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-020-09963-7", "Author": "Kris Manohar", "Abstract": "Improved pixel value ordering utilizes two embedding procedures. These are the maximum and minimum embedding procedures. The maximum embedding procedure modifies a pixel by either 0 or 1, while the minimum embedding procedure modifies a pixel by either 0 or\u2009\u2212\u20091. Our counter-embedding strategy modifies a corner pixel using both embedding procedures. This strategy exploits the opposing distortions of each embedding procedure and can embed up to 2 secret bits into a single pixel. The proposed scheme consists of two stages. The first stage applies the counter-embedding strategy to two corner pixels of an input block. Thus, it can conceal up to four bits per block. However, this stage generates some auxiliary information which is embedded in the second stage using the traditional IPVO. The second stage minimizes distortions by only modifying pixels that the first stage ignored. Our experimental \u2026", "Year": 2021}
{"Title": "Determining an Optimal Data Classification Model for Credibility-Based Fake News Detection", "Num_Citations": 0, "URL": "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12626-021-00093-6", "Author": "Amit Neil Ramkissoon and Shareeda Mohammed and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "The  existence of fake news is a problem challenging today\u2019s social media enabled world. Fake news can be classified using different methods. Predicting and detecting fake news has proven to be a challenge even for machine learning algorithms. This research attempts to investigate nine such machine learning algorithms to understand their performance with Credibility-Based Fake News Detection. This study uses a standard dataset with features relating to the credibility of news publishers. These features are analysed using each of these algorithms. The results of these experiments are analysed using four evaluation methodologies, namely the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve, the precision-recall curve, the Lift curve, and numerical metrics. The analysis of these experiments and results reveals varying performance with the use of each of the nine methods. Based upon our selected \u2026", "Year": 2021}
{"Title": "A Strategy for the Linear Time Implementation of the SMVQ Algorithm", "Num_Citations": 0, "URL": "https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/02564602.2020.1842258", "Author": "Kris Manohar and The Duc Kieu", "Abstract": "This paper proposes a linear time implementation of the Side Match Vector Quantization (SMVQ) algorithm. It maps the side match distortion values between codewords and a boundary vector onto an order-preserving integer sequence. Hence the SMVQ algorithm\u2019s state codebook generation step can exploit any integer sorting algorithm to improve its overall runtime complexity. The proposed SMVQ implementations utilize the bucket sort algorithm to demonstrate this concept. The experimental results show a percentage change of \u221284.26% for N\u2009=\u20091024 (46.052\u20137.247\u2009s) and \u221294.82% for N\u2009=\u20094096 (998.355\u201351.710\u2009s) in the average execution time of the SMVQ algorithm.", "Year": 2020}
{"Title": "A Linear Time Side Match Vector Quantization Implementation", "Num_Citations": 0, "URL": "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9071050/", "Author": "Kris Manohar and The Duc Kieu", "Abstract": "Side match vector quantization (SMVQ) is slower than vector quantization (VQ). For each SMVQ index, it generates a state codebook SCB. The N codewords from the main codebook D are sorted by their side match distortions SMDs. The average execution times with N = 512 and 1024 are 18.528 and 46.052 seconds. In this paper, we propose an approach that can exploit any integer sorting algorithm. First, it assigns a modified side match distortion integer MSMD to each codeword. A codeword's MSMD is a function of its SMD. Next, it sorts the codewords in D by their MSMDs. This step can use any integer sorting algorithm. Our implementation uses the bucket sort algorithm. It reduces the SMVQ's time complexity from O(Nlog 2 N) to O(N + K), where K is the number of buckets. Experimental results verify that our implementation is faster. The average execution times with N = 512 and 1024 are 4.279 and 7.247 \u2026", "Year": 2020}
{"Title": "An Experimental Evaluation of Data Classification Models for Credibility Based Fake News Detection", "Num_Citations": 4, "URL": "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9346381/", "Author": "Amit Neil Ramkissoon and Shareeda Mohammed", "Abstract": "The existence of fake news is a problem challenging today's social media enabled world. Fake news can be classified using varying methods. Predicting and detecting fake news has proven to be challenging even for machine learning algorithms. This research attempts to investigate nine such machine learning algorithms to understand their performance with Credibility Based Fake News Detection. This study uses a standard dataset with features relating to the credibility of news publishers. These features are analysed using each of these algorithms. The results of these experiments are analysed using four evaluation methodologies. The analysis reveals varying performance with the use of each of the nine methods. Based upon our selected dataset, one of these methods has proven to be most appropriate for the purpose of Credibility Based Fake News Detection.", "Year": 2020}
{"Title": "S-MDP: Streaming with Markov Decision Processes", "Num_Citations": 20, "URL": "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8607114/", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "In recent years, finding adaptive players competing for network resources at a single bottleneck link has become common. This competition generally occurs at routers in household local area networks. Such competition severely reduces viewers' quality of experience, such as fairness and stability. Researchers harness Markov decision process (MDP) models to optimize the adaptive video streaming process. Typically, players follow a policy based on numerous parameters, such as buffer occupancy or average bandwidth. In this study, we defied this traditional decentralized client-side MDP approach by allowing players to share a network state among themselves, which we called a streaming MDP (S-MDP). This state includes a discrete data rate measurement (DRM) value. The DRM value is a normalized value of a player's incoming bitrate and is an example of an interval measurement scale. Players use video \u2026", "Year": 2019}
{"Title": "B-DASH: Broadcast-based Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP", "Num_Citations": 12, "URL": "https://www.inderscienceonline.com/doi/abs/10.1504/IJAACS.2019.096661", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "Multiple video players competing at a bottleneck link give rise to overlapping ON-OFF traffic patterns. These patterns may introduce the problem of overlapping oscillatory effects amongst players resulting in poor video quality, frequent flickering and video freezes. We propose a distributed heuristic hybrid-based approach called B-DASH to address this problem. B-DASH implements two mechanisms: 1) message exchange; 2) adaptation. During message exchange, a broadcast mechanism is used to send information to neighbouring players. Based on the information present in this exchange, players can adapt to different network conditions. In this adaptation approach, B-DASH players with the higher estimated bandwidth are forced to reduce their bitrate request, while players with the lowest estimated bandwidth increase their bitrate request. This action reduces the oscillatory effects of the ON-OFF traffic patterns \u2026", "Year": 2019}
{"Title": "S-mdp: Streaming with markov decision processes", "Num_Citations": 20, "URL": "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8607114/", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "In recent years, finding adaptive players competing for network resources at a single bottleneck link has become common. This competition generally occurs at routers in household local area networks. Such competition severely reduces viewers' quality of experience, such as fairness and stability. Researchers harness Markov decision process (MDP) models to optimize the adaptive video streaming process. Typically, players follow a policy based on numerous parameters, such as buffer occupancy or average bandwidth. In this study, we defied this traditional decentralized client-side MDP approach by allowing players to share a network state among themselves, which we called a streaming MDP (S-MDP). This state includes a discrete data rate measurement (DRM) value. The DRM value is a normalized value of a player's incoming bitrate and is an example of an interval measurement scale. Players use video \u2026", "Year": 2019}
{"Title": "B-DASH: broadcast-based dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP", "Num_Citations": 12, "URL": "https://www.inderscienceonline.com/doi/abs/10.1504/IJAACS.2019.096661", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "Multiple video players competing at a bottleneck link give rise to overlapping ON-OFF traffic patterns. These patterns may introduce the problem of overlapping oscillatory effects amongst players resulting in poor video quality, frequent flickering and video freezes. We propose a distributed heuristic hybrid-based approach called B-DASH to address this problem. B-DASH implements two mechanisms: 1) message exchange; 2) adaptation. During message exchange, a broadcast mechanism is used to send information to neighbouring players. Based on the information present in this exchange, players can adapt to different network conditions. In this adaptation approach, B-DASH players with the higher estimated bandwidth are forced to reduce their bitrate request, while players with the lowest estimated bandwidth increase their bitrate request. This action reduces the oscillatory effects of the ON-OFF traffic patterns \u2026", "Year": 2019}
{"Title": "A centroid based vector quantization reversible data hiding technique", "Num_Citations": 1, "URL": "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-019-7631-3", "Author": "Kris Manohar and The Duc Kieu", "Abstract": "In this paper, we propose a reversible data hiding scheme that exploits the centroid formula. Specifically, we use it to define a centroid boundary vector and a centroid state codebook CSCB. Initially, our centroid boundary vectors and CSCBs are the same as the side match vector quantization (SMVQ) algorithm\u2019s boundary vectors and state codebooks SCBs. For each VQ index, the proposed scheme exploits the centroid formula to update its centroid boundary vector and the corresponding CSCB. The updating is coupled with a heuristic to select the best state codebook (i.e., either SCB or CSCB) for each VQ index, which generates a highly compressible distribution of index values. Our experimental results show that the proposed scheme can embed n = 1, 2, 3, and 4 bit per index (bpi) at bit rates of 0.332, 0.394, 0.457, and 0.519 bit per pixel (bpp), respectively, for the main codebook size N = 256. These \u2026", "Year": 2019}
{"Title": "A Method for Creating Assessment For Computer Science", "Num_Citations": 0, "URL": "-", "Author": "Shareeda Mohammed and Permanand Mohan", "Abstract": "No abstract available.", "Year": 2019}
{"Title": "Intelligent diagnosis of diseases in plants using a hybrid Multi-Criteria decision making technique", "Num_Citations": 36, "URL": "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169916306172", "Author": "Wayne Goodridge and Margaret Bernard and Ren\u00e9 Jordan and Reanne Rampersad", "Abstract": "This paper describes an Expert System that can intelligently diagnose diseases in plants. The system is dialog-based and uses a Multi-Criteria Decision Making technique that is a hybrid of Analytic Hierarchy Process and Sensitive Simple Additive Weighting. The paper describes an approach for disease modeling that uses a set of characteristics which are weighted for each disease using two types of weights: Relative Weights and Scales. The diagnostic process involves calculating the utility value for each disease based on the utility values of its characteristics. Experimental results show an accuracy of over 95%. The system implemented is called AgriDiagnose and it consists of a web-based pathology tool to model the diseases and a mobile app for farmers to interact with the system for disease diagnosis in the field.", "Year": 2017}
{"Title": "Server-based and network-assisted solutions for adaptive video streaming", "Num_Citations": 10, "URL": "https://search.proquest.com/openview/947a15989dd4520683c7fe8942a28c4c/1?pq-origsite=gscholar&cbl=886380", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "Server-based adaptive video streaming is gaining popularity in recent years. This is because clients (client-based) and in-network devices (network or proxy-based) are not powerful enough to run state of the art adaptation algorithms, for example, traffic shaping and machine learning. When decision making is placed at the server new and exciting possibilities are obtained for next best segment selection. This work highlights server-based solutions to adaptive video streaming. It provides a taxonomy of current state of the art solutions. It then illustrates various approaches used for server-based adaptive video streaming. Advantages and disadvantages are discussed. Network-assisted or in-network DASH solutions have certain advantages over traditional client-based approaches. It is proposed that the sharing of information would result in better network and client bandwidth estimations. This measure would ensure \u2026", "Year": 2017}
{"Title": "An SMVQ-based reversible data hiding technique exploiting side match distortion", "Num_Citations": 7, "URL": "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-017-4814-7", "Author": "Kris Manohar and The Duc Kieu", "Abstract": "Secure online communication is a necessity in today\u2019s digital world. This paper proposes a novel reversible data hiding technique based on side match vector quantization (SMVQ). The proposed scheme classifies SMVQ indices as Case 1 or 2 based on the value of the first state codeword\u2019s side match distortion (SMD) and a predefined threshold t. The proposed scheme uses this classification to switch between compression codes designed for Cases 1 and 2 SMVQ indices. The length of these compression codes is controlled by the parameter \u2113. Thus, with the selection of appropriate \u2113 and t values, the proposed scheme achieves good compression, creating spaces to embed secret information. The embedding algorithm can embed n secret bits into each SMVQ index, where n = 1, 2, 3, or 4. The experimental results show that the proposed scheme obtains the embedding rates of 1, 2, 3, or 4 bit per index \u2026", "Year": 2017}
{"Title": "Load forecasting using deep neural networks", "Num_Citations": 84, "URL": "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8085971/", "Author": "Stefan Hosein and Patrick Hosein", "Abstract": "Short-term electricity demand prediction is of great importance to power companies since it is required to ensure adequate capacity when needed and, in some cases, it is needed to estimate the supply of raw material (e.g., natural gas) required to produce the required capacity. The deregulation of the power industry in many countries has magnified the importance of this need. Research in this area has included the use of shallow neural networks and other machine learning algorithms to solve this problem. However, recent results in other areas, such as Computer Vision and Speech Recognition, have shown great promise for Deep Neural Networks (DNN). Unfortunately, far less research exists on the application of DNN to short-term load forecasting. In this paper, we apply DNN as well as other machine learning techniques to short-term load forecasting in a power grid. The data used is taken from periodic smart \u2026", "Year": 2017}
{"Title": "Sensitivity analysis using simple additive weighting method", "Num_Citations": 25, "URL": "https://j.mecs-press.net/ijisa/ijisa-v8-n5/IJISA-V8-N5-4.pdf", "Author": "Wayne S Goodridge", "Abstract": "The output of a multiple criteria decision method often has to be analyzed using some sensitivity analysis technique. The SAW MCDM method is commonly used in management sciences and there is a critical need for a robust approach to sensitivity analysis in the context that uncertain data is often present in decision models. Most of the sensitivity analysis techniques for the SAW method involve Monte Carlo simulation methods on the initial data. These methods are computationally intensive and often require complex software. In this paper, the SAW method is extended to include an objective function which makes it easy to analyze the influence of specific changes in certain criteria values thus making easy to perform sensitivity analysis.", "Year": 2016}
{"Title": "Energy aware ad hoc on-demand multipath distance vector routing", "Num_Citations": 18, "URL": "https://www.mecs-press.org/ijisa/ijisa-v7-n7/IJISA-V7-N7-7.pdf", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "The current disjoint path Ad hoc On-Demand Multipath Distance Vector (AOMDV) routing protocol does not have any energy-awareness guarantees. When AOMDV is used in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) energy is an important consideration. To enhance the AOMDV protocol an extra energy metric is added along with the hop count metric. This Energy aware or EA-AOMDV improves path selection using a trade-off between energy and hop count, thus giving more longevity to WSNs. EA-AOMDV is compared to the current AOMDV routing protocol to prove its worth in the context of WSNs. It is found that EA-AOMDV leads to better WSN energy-awareness in resource constrained WSNs.", "Year": 2015}
{"Title": "Fault Tolerant Multi-Criteria Multi-Path Routing in WSNs", "Num_Citations": 17, "URL": "https://www.mecs-press.org/ijisa/ijisa-v7-n6/IJISA-V7-N6-6.pdf", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "The Ad Hoc On-Demand Multi-Path Distance Vector (AOMDV) routing protocol allows the transport of data along one or more paths in wireless sensor networks (WSNs). The path chosen is based on a single shortest path hop count metric. The data on some WSNs is mission critical, for example, military and health care applications. Hence, fault tolerance in WSNs is becoming increasingly important. To improve the fault tolerance of WSNs in lossy environments, this work adds to the AOMDV routing protocol as it incorporates an additional packet loss metric. This Multi-criteria AOMDV or M-AOMDV is evaluated using the ns2 simulator. Simulations show that MAOMDV maintains relatively low packet loss rates when the WSN is experiencing loss.", "Year": 2015}
{"Title": "AdviseMe: An intelligent web-based application for academic advising", "Num_Citations": 37, "URL": "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.695.7675&rep=rep1&type=pdf", "Author": "L Keston Henderson and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "The traditional academic advising process in many tertiary-level institutions today possess significant inefficiencies, which often account for high levels of student dissatisfaction. Common issues include high student-advisor loads, long waiting periods at advisory offices and the need for advisors to handle a significant number of redundant cases, among others.Utilizing semantic web expert system technologies, a solution was proposed that would complement the traditional advising process, alleviating its issues and inefficiencies where possible. The solution coined \u2018AdviseMe\u2019, an intelligent web-based application, provides a reliable, user-friendly interface for the handling of general advisory cases in special degree programmes offered by the Faculty of Science and Technology (FST) at the University of the West Indies (UWI), St. Augustine campus. In addition to providing information on handling basic student issues, the system\u2019s core features include course advising, as well as information of graduation status and oral exam qualifications. This paper produces an overview of the solution, with special attention being paid to the its inference system exposed via its RESTful Java Web Server (JWS).", "Year": 2015}
{"Title": "Energy aware Ad-Hoc on demand multipath distance vector routing", "Num_Citations": 18, "URL": "https://www.mecs-press.org/ijisa/ijisa-v7-n7/IJISA-V7-N7-7.pdf", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "The current disjoint path Ad hoc On-Demand Multipath Distance Vector (AOMDV) routing protocol does not have any energy-awareness guarantees. When AOMDV is used in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) energy is an important consideration. To enhance the AOMDV protocol an extra energy metric is added along with the hop count metric. This Energy aware or EA-AOMDV improves path selection using a trade-off between energy and hop count, thus giving more longevity to WSNs. EA-AOMDV is compared to the current AOMDV routing protocol to prove its worth in the context of WSNs. It is found that EA-AOMDV leads to better WSN energy-awareness in resource constrained WSNs.", "Year": 2015}
{"Title": "Fault tolerant multi-criteria multi-path routing in wireless sensor networks", "Num_Citations": 17, "URL": "https://www.mecs-press.org/ijisa/ijisa-v7-n6/IJISA-V7-N6-6.pdf", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge", "Abstract": "The Ad Hoc On-Demand Multi-Path Distance Vector (AOMDV) routing protocol allows the transport of data along one or more paths in wireless sensor networks (WSNs). The path chosen is based on a single shortest path hop count metric. The data on some WSNs is mission critical, for example, military and health care applications. Hence, fault tolerance in WSNs is becoming increasingly important. To improve the fault tolerance of WSNs in lossy environments, this work adds to the AOMDV routing protocol as it incorporates an additional packet loss metric. This Multi-criteria AOMDV or M-AOMDV is evaluated using the ns2 simulator. Simulations show that MAOMDV maintains relatively low packet loss rates when the WSN is experiencing loss.", "Year": 2015}
{"Title": "Neural-based cuckoo search of employee health and safety (HS)", "Num_Citations": 26, "URL": "http://www.mecs-press.net/ijisa/ijisa-v5-n2/IJISA-V5-N2-9.pdf", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Ashok Sahai", "Abstract": "A study using the cuckoo search algorithm to evaluate the effects of using computer-aided workstations on employee health and safety (HS) is conducted. We collected data for HS risk on employees at their workplaces, analyzed the data and proposed corrective measures applying our methodology. It includes a checklist with nine HS dimensions: work organization, displays, input devices, furniture, work space, environment, software, health hazards and satisfaction. By the checklist, data on HS risk factors are collected. For the calculation of an HS risk index a neural-swarm cuckoo search (NSCS) algorithm has been employed. Based on the HS risk index, IHS four groups of HS risk severity are determined: low, moderate, high and extreme HS risk. By this index HS problems are allocated and corrective measures can be applied. This approach is illustrated and validated by a case study. An important advantage of the approach is its easy use and HS index methodology speedily pointing out individual employee specific HS risk.", "Year": 2013}
{"Title": "System and method for synchronized and coordinated beam switching and scheduling in a wireless communications system", "Num_Citations": 55, "URL": "https://patents.google.com/patent/US8520537B2/en", "Author": "Cornelius Van Rensburg and Patrick Hosein and Anthony CK Soong", "Abstract": "A system and method for synchronized and coordinated beam switching and scheduling in a wireless communications system is provided. A method for controller operation includes determining a beam cycle pattern, sharing the beam cycle pattern with neighboring controllers, receiving beam information from a communications device, generating scheduling information from the beam cycle pattern and beam cycle patterns from other controllers, receiving a transmission intended for the communications device, and causing the transmission to be transmitted to the communications device. The beam cycle pattern includes a list of beam patterns transmitted by the controller, and the transmission is transmitted using the scheduling information and the received beam information.", "Year": 2013}
{"Title": "Using Bias Optimization for Reversible Data Hiding Using Image Interpolation", "Num_Citations": 2, "URL": "https://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4102", "Author": "Andrew Rudder and Wayne Goodridge and Shareeda Mohammed", "Abstract": "In this paper, we propose a reversible data hiding method in the spatial domain for compressed grayscale images. The proposed method embeds secret bits into a compressed thumbnail of the original image by using a novel interpolation method and the Neighbour Mean Interpolation (NMI) technique as scaling up to the original image occurs. Experimental results presented in this paper show that the proposed method has significantly improved embedding capacities over the approach proposed by Jung and Yoo.", "Year": 2013}
{"Title": "A Comparison of BA, GA, PSO, BP and LM for Training Feed forward Neural Networks in e-Learning Context", "Num_Citations": 248, "URL": "http://www.mecs-press.net/ijisa/ijisa-v4-n7/IJISA-V4-N7-3.pdf", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Ashok Sahai", "Abstract": "Training neural networks is a complex task of great importance in the supervised learning field of research. We intend to show the superiority (time performance and quality of solution) of the new metaheuristic bat algorithm (BA) over other more\u2015standard\u2016 algorithms in neural network training. In this work we tackle this problem with five algorithms, and try to over a set of results that could hopefully foster future comparisons by using a standard dataset (Proben1: selected benchmark composed of problems arising in the field of Medicine) and presentation of the results. We have selected two gradient descent algorithms: Back propagation and Levenberg-Marquardt, and three population based heuristic: Bat Algorithm, Genetic Algorithm, and Particle Swarm Optimization. Our conclusions clearly establish the advantages of the new metaheuristic bat algorithm over the other algorithms in the context of eLearning.", "Year": 2012}
{"Title": "Security in wireless sensor networks", "Num_Citations": 65, "URL": "https://www.academia.edu/download/36369043/6-Security-in-Wireless-Sensor-Networks.pdf", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Wayne Goodridge and Diana Ragbir", "Abstract": "Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) pose a new challenge to network designers in the area of developing better and secure routing protocols. Many sensor networks have mission-critical tasks, so it is clear that security needs to be taken into account at design time. However, sensor networks are not traditional computing devices, and as a result, existing security models and methods are ill suited. The security issues posed by sensor networks represent a rich field of research problems. Improving network hardware and software may address many of the issues, but others will require new supporting technologies. With the recent surge in the use of sensor networks, for example, in ubiquitous computing and body sensor networks (BSNs) the need for security mechanisms has a more important role. Recently proposed solutions address but a small subset of current sensor network attacks. Also because of the special battery requirements for such networks, normal cryptographic network solutions are irrelevant. New mechanisms need to be developed to address this type of network.", "Year": 2012}
{"Title": "A fuzzy c-means bi-sonar-based Metaheuristic Optimization Algorithm", "Num_Citations": 35, "URL": "https://reunir.unir.net/handle/123456789/9612", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Ashok Sahai", "Abstract": "Fuzzy clustering is an important problem which is the subject of active research in several real world applications. Fuzzy c-means (FCM) algorithm is one of the most popular fuzzy clustering techniques because it is efficient, straightforward, and easy to implement. Fuzzy clustering methods allow the objects to belong to several clusters simultaneously, with different degrees of membership. Objects on the boundaries between several classes are not forced to fully belong to one of the classes, but rather are assigned membership degrees between 0 and 1 indicating their partial membership. However FCM is sensitive to initialization and is easily trapped in local optima. Bi-sonar optimization (BSO) is a stochastic global Metaheuristic optimization tool and is a relatively new algorithm. In this paper a hybrid fuzzy clustering method FCB based on FCM and BSO is proposed which makes use of the merits of both algorithms. Experimental results show that this proposed method is efficient and reveals encouraging results.", "Year": 2012}
{"Title": "A Glowworm Optimization Method for the Design of Web Services", "Num_Citations": 12, "URL": "https://mecs-press.org/ijisa/ijisa-v4-n10/IJISA-V4-N10-10.pdf", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Ashok Sahai", "Abstract": "A method for adaptive usability evaluation of B2C eCommerce web services is proposed. For measuring eCommerce usability a checklist integrating eCommerce quality and usability is developed. By a Glowworm swarm optimization (GSO) neural networks-based model the usability dimensions and their checklist items are adaptively selected. A case study for usability evaluation of an eCommerce anthurium retail website is carried out. The experimental results show that GSO with neural networks supports the allocation of usability problems and the defining of relevant improvement measures. The main advantage of the approach is the adaptive selection of most significant checklist dimensions and items and thus significant reduction of the time for usability evaluation and design.", "Year": 2012}
{"Title": "Security in Wireless Sensor Networks", "Num_Citations": 65, "URL": "-", "Author": "Wayne Goodridge & Diana Ragbir Koffka Khan", "Abstract": "No abstract available.", "Year": 2012}
{"Title": "System and method for enabling coordinated beam switching and scheduling", "Num_Citations": 74, "URL": "https://patents.google.com/patent/US8315657B2/en", "Author": "Cornelius Van Rensburg and Patrick Ahamad Hosein and Anthony CK Soong", "Abstract": "A system and method for enabling coordinated beam switching and scheduling in a wireless communications system. A method for controller operation includes indicating that the controller is operating in a cooperative beam switching mode, transmitting a beam formed reference signal (BFRS), from each communications device being served by the controller, receiving a measurement of a communications channel between the controller and the communications device and an indicator indicating a transmission unit corresponding to the measurement of the communications channel, receiving a transmission intended for a communications device, and causing the transmission to be transmitted to the communications device. The BFRS is beam formed using a plurality of beam patterns, the beam pattern used in beam forming the BFRS changes once per transmission unit, and the transmission is transmitted using \u2026", "Year": 2012}
{"Title": "A fuzzy bat clustering method for ergonomic screening of office workplaces", "Num_Citations": 98, "URL": "https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-23163-6_9", "Author": "Koffka Khan and Alexander Nikov and Ashok Sahai", "Abstract": "A method for screening of company workplaces with high ergonomic risk is developed. For clustering of company workplaces a fuzzy modification of bat algorithm is proposed. Using data gathered by a checklist from workplaces, information for ergonomic related health risks is extracted. Three clusters of workplaces with low, moderate and high ergonomic risk are determined. Using these clusters, workplaces with moderate and high ergonomic risk levels are screened and relevant solutions are proposed. By a case study this method is illustrated and validated. Important advantages of the method are reduction of computational effort and fast screening of workplaces with major ergonomic problems within a company.", "Year": 2011}
{"Title": "Queuing delay based rate control", "Num_Citations": 112, "URL": "https://patents.google.com/patent/US7706403B2/en", "Author": "Patrick A Hosein", "Abstract": "A method and apparatus for rate control adjusts or otherwise requests adjustment of a communication link data rate based on transmit queuing delays. For example, a mobile station may monitor expected transmit queuing delays relative to one or more delay targets or other Quality-of-Service constraints, and request reverse link rate increases or decreases accordingly. Similarly, the mobile station may be configured periodically to request reverse link rate changes based on determining the rate needed to meet targeted queuing delays for one or more service instances being supported by the mobile station in each of a succession of ongoing rate control intervals. Requested rates may be defined data rates or may be virtual rates that can be achieved by using combinations of defined data rates. Queuing-based rate control also can be applied to the base station's forward link, and, more broadly, to essentially any \u2026", "Year": 2010}
{"Title": "Method and apparatus for wireless resource allocation", "Num_Citations": 61, "URL": "https://patents.google.com/patent/US7839822B2/en", "Author": "Yunsong Yang and Anthony CK Soong and Jianmin Lu and Patrick Hosein", "Abstract": "Techniques are provided to assign radio resources with one of two or more types of assignments on a frame-by-frame basis. The first type of assignment uses subcarriers that are contiguous in both time and frequency, and the second type of assignment uses subcarriers that are disjoint and equally-spaced in frequency. The types of resource assignments can be multiplexed in a frame by dividing the frame into two zones, each zone of a different type. The demarcation between the first and second zones is implicitly indicated by the assignment messages for the mobile stations. Based on the loading conditions, the base station selects one of two demarcation strategies to use and communicates the selection implicitly by using one assignment message for a mobile station.", "Year": 2010}
{"Title": "Radial graph visualization: an algorithmic framework with applications", "Num_Citations": 0, "URL": "https://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=3452049445246859357&hl=en&oi=scholarr", "Author": "Shareeda Mohammed", "Abstract": "Graphs are widely and effectively used abstractions for organizing and visualizing information. Many real world domains can be represented as node-link graphs, for example, the backbone of the Internet and B+-Trees. This thesis presents a graph data structure for representing graphs and an algorithmic framework for positioning the nodes such that the result is a planar radial layout. An XML-based file format for the storing of graph data is presented. The design of the file format achieves data abstraction amongst its layers separating the data and the application. An object-oriented algorithmic paradigm was taken. As a result, classes with low cohesion that emphasize scalability and efficiency are produced. Two prototype applications are developed to test the design. Firstly, the framework and data structures are used to create a radial drawing application for a web course storyboard. The radial drawing is a \u2026", "Year": 2009}
{"Title": "Teaching programming using visualization", "Num_Citations": 37, "URL": "https://www.academia.edu/download/43948824/WBE2007.pdf", "Author": "Andrew Rudder and Margaret Bernard and Shareeda Mohammed", "Abstract": "Teaching computer programming to young students is a major challenge. This paper describes a web-based course for teaching programming using visualization and a gaming theme. Concepts are taught using real world examples that the target students can identify with; in this way some of the problems related to understanding abstract concepts are alleviated and learning occurs in context. The full range of multimedia technology including animation, sound and video are used to immerse the student in an environment where learning is fun and visual display of the concepts reinforce learning. A gaming theme is used for formative assessment. Students are provided with \u2018game\u2019activities such as \u201cspot the error\u201d,\u201cpredict the output\u201d and \u201cput in order\u201d. These enhance critical thinking. They test comprehension and knowledge as well as higher order thinking skills.", "Year": 2007}
{"Title": "Heuristic constraint-path routing decision system", "Num_Citations": 15, "URL": "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/1429937/", "Author": "Wayne Goodridge and William Robertson and William J Phillips and Shyamala Sivakumar", "Abstract": "Heuristic QoS algorithms under strict constraints perform poorly in terms of finding a path that is suitable for a user's QoS needs-the multiple constraint path problem (MCP). Exact QoS algorithms, on the other hand, guarantee that a path satisfying user needs would be found and offer a more realistic approach for solving the MCP problem in view of the fact that the NP-complete character of graphs are not common in real networks. This fact has driven approaches like the SAMCRA and A*prune algorithms. However, these algorithms still have very high running times relative to heuristic approaches. When QoS routing algorithms are used in online traffic engineering (TE) environments it may be necessary to route thousands of traffic flows each minute. Exact algorithms simply cannot work in such environments. We propose a heuristic algorithm that is suitable for working in an online TE environment. Simulations show \u2026", "Year": 2005}
{"Title": "Labeled radial drawing of data structures", "Num_Citations": 19, "URL": "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/1218028/", "Author": "M Bernard and S Mohammed", "Abstract": "We describe a radial layout method for displaying B/sup +/-tree data structures. We present an algorithmic framework for computing the node positions that result in a planar drawing. Layout issues related to displaying the internal structure of the nodes are addressed. Each field value and associated pointer that comprises the internal structure of the node is considered a subnode. The drawing technique uses different polygonal shapes for the subnodes that allow curvature to the design. We discuss the layout of text labels for the fields of the nodes which provides good readability and which preserves the semantics of the data structure. The edge positioning shows the association of the pointers with their corresponding field label. The radial drawing of the B/sup +/-tree makes better use of the display space than the traditional hierarchical drawing.", "Year": 2003}
{"Title": "QoS control for WCDMA high speed packet data", "Num_Citations": 113, "URL": "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/1045716/", "Author": "Patrick A Hosein", "Abstract": "Wideband CDMA Release 5 is expected to support peak downlink bit rates of 10 Mbps for use with bandwidth intensive data and multimedia applications. Such rates are achieved through fast link adaptation, fast Hybrid ARQ and fast scheduling over a shared forward link packet data channel. Total throughput can be maximized by having the frame scheduler take into account the instantaneous radio conditions of users and serving users during their good radio condition periods. This results in high user diversity gains. However in order to support QoS guarantees, it will sometimes be necessary to serve users experiencing bad radio conditions in order to maintain their requested QoS levels. We present a flexible algorithm that provides user QoS guarantees while at the same time achieving some user diversity gains.", "Year": 2002}
{"Title": "Preferential defense strategies. Part I: The Static Case", "Num_Citations": 73, "URL": "https://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=272667342497847725&hl=en&oi=scholarr", "Author": "Patrick Ahamad Hosein and Michael Athans", "Abstract": "In a military conflict, the defense tries to save as many of its assets as possible. In this paper we will assume that the defense can fire its weapons in stages and that the outcomes of the engagements of a stage are observed before assignments for the next stage are made. We will outline a method for deciding on the number of weapons to be used in each stage and the assignment of these weapons.", "Year": 1990}
{"Title": "Some analytical results for the dynamic weapon-target allocation problem", "Num_Citations": 72, "URL": "https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/citations/ADA219281", "Author": "Patrick A Hosein and Michael Athans", "Abstract": "We consider the dynamic version of the Weapon-Target Allocation problem. This problem is, in general, NP-Complete, so our aim is to provide insight into the problem and its solution. We provide analytical solutions for simple cases of the problem as well as asymptotic results as the number of targets goes to infinity. The battle scenario being modeled is as follows. The offense launches a number of weapons the targets which are aimed at assets of the defense. The defense has a number of defensive weapons each of which can engage at most one target. The outcome of such an engagement is stochastic. In the static scenario all weapons are fired simultaneously. In the dynamic scenario some weapons are assigned and fired and the outcomes of these engagements are observed before further assignments are made. Values are assigned to the targets and the objective is to assign weapons to targets so as to minimize the total expected value of the surviving targets after all weapons have been fired. Generally, under suitable assumptions, we show that dynamic strategies can approximately double the defense effectiveness as compared to their static counterparts.Descriptors:", "Year": 1990}
{"Title": "Dynamic weapon-target assignment problems with vulnerable C2 nodes", "Num_Citations": 65, "URL": "https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/citations/ADA196449", "Author": "Patrick A Hosein and James T Walton and Michael Athans", "Abstract": "This paper presents a progress report on our work on the dynamic version of the Weapon to Target Assignment WTA problem and on the static version of the WTA problem in which vulnerable C3 nodes are included in the formulation. In the static WTA problem, weapons must be assigned to targets with the objective of minimizing the total expected number or value of the surviving targets. In the dynamic version this allocation is done in time stages so that the outcomes of previous engagements can be used in making future assignments. We show that, for the simple cases studied, there is a significant cost advantage in using the dynamic strategy. We believe that similar results will hold for the more general problem. In the static defense-asset problem with vulnerable C3 nodes the offense is allowed to either attack the assets themselves or to first attack the command and control system, and then the assets if the c3 nodes are destroyed then the defensive interceptors are assumed unusable. We first consider simple cases where assumptions are made as to offensive and defensive states of knowledge and kill probabilities. Strategies are then developed and optimal weapon allocations identified. These assumptions are then relaxed, and further examples demonstrate the ensuing complexity.Descriptors:", "Year": 1988}
{"Title": "Relaxation methods for network flow problems with convex arc costs", "Num_Citations": 138, "URL": "https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/0325067", "Author": "Dimitri P Bertsekas and Patrick A Hosein and Paul Tseng", "Abstract": "We consider the standard single commodity network flow problem with both linear and strictly convex possibly nondifferentiable arc costs. For the case where all arc costs are strictly convex we study the convergence of a dual Gauss\u2013Seidel type relaxation method that is well suited for parallel computation. We then extend this method to the case where some of the arc costs are linear. As a special case we recover a relaxation method for the linear minimum cost network flow problem proposed in Bertsekas [1] and Bertsekas and Tseng [2].", "Year": 1987}
{"Title": "An XML-based Visualization System for Dynamic Modeling of a Web-Based Course Storyboard", "Num_Citations": 0, "URL": "https://www.academia.edu/download/39101987/coursestoryboard.pdf", "Author": "S Mohammed and M Bernard", "Abstract": "Graphs are widely and effectively used abstractions for organizing and visualizing information. In this paper we present a graph data structure for representing trees and a drawing framework for positioning the nodes such that the result is a planar radial layout. Radial drawings make good use of the screen space. An XML-based file format for the storing of graph data is presented. The design of the file format achieves data abstraction amongst its layers separating the data and the application. We use an object-oriented algorithmic paradigm. Classes with low cohesion that emphasize scalability and efficiency are produced.A prototype application is presented to test and exhibit the design. The framework and data structures are used to create a radial drawing application for a web-based course storyboard. The radial drawing is a graphical representation of the structure of the web-based course that can be used in the design of the course as well as used as the actual site map. In the prototype, the node structure is not the traditional point used by most graph-drawing applications but rather a complex structure with its own internal structure. A novel specialized design layout for these node structures in which the readability of text-based labels is maximized is offered. This adds to the data abstraction of the design, facilitating the reuse of layout information and improving the overall efficiency. The algorithms are linear with O (n) complexity.", "Year": "0000"}
